for years you knew that inflation was a
problem and of course if you track the
prices you would have seen it but in
2020 that pace accelerated so fast that
it woke everybody up and in today's
video I'm going to explain how inflation
has become not just a problem but how it
will impact everybody on a whole
different level starting in 20124 you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you in today's video I want to
explain exactly how it all works and
what we are seeing at this time you see
for a period we had watched prices going
up year after year and it was pretty
normal Ah that's inflation oh well what
can you do and then 2020 hit and the
acceleration occurred so fast that
people started questioning where is this
coming from why is this happening why am
I getting the prices and it's seemingly
like we're in AR Argentina or Zimbabwe
because things are going so fast I
cannot keep up it's not just a simple
yes we experience a few percent of
devaluation each and every year now
we've gone beyond that and so what I'm
going to show you here gets to the next
level and it is right now in 2024 that
we have to worry about it it's not a
future event let me break that down you
see we've talked about the usage of
credit cards and of course student loans
both of those in the trillions of
dollars in the United States same
problem elsewhere a payment method
that's some call Phantom debt just hit a
record what are we talking about here
this is something that I've been talking
about over and over again new
record-breaking numbers on buy now pay
later purchases show consumers aren't
getting spooked by the emerging payment
method that some economists call Phantom
debt us Shoppers racked up 16 billion in
buy not pay later purchases during the
holiday season helping to close out a
big year for flexible payment options
that's a
14% increase over the holidays over the
course of 2023 that was 14% as well $75
billion buy now pay later and you might
think to yourself well they've got to
pay it right well not everybody is going
to pay it although the percentages the
AP are that they're going to experience
for this is going to be a lot worse than
their credit cards let me tell you in
most cases some of them there's there
there's a way you know equal payments
we're going to make it all fine for you
but let's be honest the vast majority of
people using this are probably already
too far in debt with their credit cards
they've got rent they've got all the
bills they've stacked up and so they
cannot pay what they need to this is the
last resort or maybe they're just
they're not good with money and they're
just spending it all and this is hey we
have access to it sure I'll do
that these Services allow Shoppers to
split the purchases into installments
some options are interest free that's
important to note some of them but I
think there's a a catch to that as well
consumers typically make payments over
four to six weeks some allow for longer
and so on you've seen this as well I
have noted basically everywhere you go
to check out online buy now pay later I
remember getting this somewhere and the
item was just a few dollars it was LE
definitely less than $20 and I was given
the option to pay in
installments it just seemed odd to me
that something of a purchase like this
would even have the ability to do a buy
out pay later but that's the world we
live in today and you are going to see
this more and more and more common this
is something that we should be paying
attention to because it tells us what's
going on with credit cards they are
already at a level people can't pay and
Walmart is adding these to the self
checkouts where you're going to be going
through you're going to be scanning your
items right because they got rid of the
cashiers and now you're going to see oh
I don't need to pay this today I could
pay it over the next six weeks great
Pepsi and lays dropped by one of the
world's biggest grossers over price
hikes and this is pardon of my
pronunciation carfor uh one of the
world's largest grocery chains they told
customers that they're pulling lays
Doritos lipin teas and other PepsiCo
products in protest of increased prices
that's look at this 12,000 stores
globally but the stores in France Italy
Belgium Spain will be affected they're
saying no our customers don't want that
and so as a result you increase the
prices too far we're going to pull them
out of the store now
that's potentially good because this
company might go back and say hey we're
going to squeeze but what are they going
to do like let's let's be honest for a
moment right here what do you think
PepsiCo is going to do with this are
they just going to say all right well we
lost the the biggest supermarket in on
Earth uh yeah okay no
worries are they going to bring their
prices
down maybe but what's more likely
they're going to go and they're going to
create new products that are shrink
flated oh that's right you remember your
can of Pepsi used to be
333 milliters or whatever and now it's
going to be
233 oh we brought our prices down or we
kept them at par but there's less stuff
in it you're going to get shrink flated
or they're going to do the skimp flation
which means oh yeah you know how it used
to be all these like real natural
ingredients oh no now we're just going
to put some you know Sawdust in there
and fill you up that's what's going on
you're going to see this and it's going
to take place all over the world you see
we've gone to a point at which inflation
was H you know things are getting more
expensive these days to I can't do it
anymore that's when you know the
consumer has had their back broken you
see these two articles connecting them
in now I'm going to take you through the
chart GPS and I'm going to show you one
after the other and then at the end
something very important to tie that all
in together here we have it inflation a
three act play some suggest that what
what happens during these periods of
time is that you have a surge of
inflation then things kind of get you
know all right here we go usually
there's that second stage where people
oh you know that's it that was probably
the it of inflation they get too relaxed
and then inflation surges Beyond that if
we sort of pull that into today's world
right now the expectation is that
inflation is coming down things are
getting easy and then the fed's going to
cut rates If the Fed cut rates that
means that your risk assets your
Bitcoins your you know the hot stocks
those are the type of things that start
to Surge up that's what you need to
understand that's when the FED Cuts
rates that's when the quantitative
easing takes place those give a risk on
Signal a green light that these are the
things where you got to put your cash
why because the currency is being
devalued and so it finds the like think
about this those risk on ones imagine
they get the green light first and so
the money flows
there however other things that are
actually safer Investments the money
then flows in that direction but the
first place is the riskiest ones usually
and that we could see that with with
Bitcoin and so on right now where let's
be honest it's it is considered to be a
risk Asset Risk on okay let's go invest
in the paper assets let's go invest in
the Bitcoins and so on that's that's
what could very well happen again and
we've already seen a big surge uh in in
some of those things since the Federal
Reserve has kind of started hinting that
hey we're getting towards the end of
this r hike cycle a holistic look at
inflation shows that it is still
elevated so when we see it though we're
way off the top there's no question
about it based on many measurements uh
but using their measurements and I do
this all the time and then I see the
comments and the thing let me just
address this really quickly we're using
their metrics okay this is broken down
as CPI core CPI core pce all those
things okay all that's the like the
general measurement of inflation why why
would I know and write books about it
about why their measurements are wrong
and then at the same time I'm saying
let's look at their measurements we need
to understand their measurements because
that's what businesses that's what the
central banks that's what um Everybody
basically investors are all going to be
looking at they're not looking at the
shadow stats inflation they're not
looking at true flation they're not
looking at any of those things
that's for you and I to know that's
important because it gives us a a real
idea of what's happening but businesses
aren't going to look at that stuff so we
need to know the fake stuff too the
manipulated stuff that's really
important there is a reason to look at
the manipulated stats us wages primed to
re accelerate next year that would be a
problem for the Federal Reserve uh but
that would be great for people if it was
true I'm not so sure that it is true uh
you know uh just in general if people
are in a job and their employer can keep
them there at the certain wage certain
salary then they're going to keep them
there obviously um but maybe this is
because of minimum wages this could be a
various things but ultimately businesses
will be firing people or will not rehire
people that they did fire if they can
replace them with AI Robotics and
automation all companies all of the
conference calls are talking about what
AI why not because they want a more
compelling product not because they want
a better service to offer but because
they know it can cut costs they can hire
a couple Engineers that engineer could
program and they can eliminate jobs this
is what they're talking about that's
what they want to achieve anyway who
knows where where they'll get to um but
we'll see what happens uh as it relates
to this the Federal Reserve doesn't want
to see wage acceleration because that
means that's inflation and then they
can't cut rates or at least they don't
have an
excuse this is showing us the effective
rate loosening uh has already been large
when we look at it overall what has
happened Financial conditions broadly
what has happened that has started to
come down uh that is that is a fact it's
into a contraction as they say here but
but look at it for what it is okay
everything yes but you still the
individual don't experience that
you experience higher prices everywhere
so that's the way I look at it right I
want to look at it from the people's
perspective supply chain pressures are
rising again this is largely just due to
what's happening in the the Red Sea and
so on but you could see it right now
looking at the misery index says that
the worst is over so what is that it's
the sum of the unemployment rate and the
inflation rate ending in 20 23 at 6.8%
it's the lowest point since March 2020
okay and so that has come down that's
the misery index putting those two
together suggesting that that has
bottomed out okay whether it is or not I
don't know people say that unemployment
will rise considerably it has stayed
within that 4% we need to go many stats
show when it gets over 4% on the u3
unemployment rate that that's kind of
the big thing but people got two jobs
three jobs four jobs 10
jobs the numbers are skewed either
way there's many different indicators
that show yeah kind of soft Landing or
maybe no landing at all and we go up
from here inflation is going to go wild
please understand the whole message of
this video you don't like you got to be
very serious about what's happening with
inflation and get ready for what's
coming because because your prices that
you pay today will seem like nothing
you're going to be shrink flated away
that bag of chips is going to be just a
single chip in there by the time they
shrink flated all the way down with the
the way the currency is
going St uh Goods prices we keep hearing
I don't know where they're seeing this
if you're seeing it please let me know
and of course anytime we see an event
let's say egg prices okay there's a you
know a a flu that happens and oh my my
goodness you know the prices Spike up we
can't compare that particular shortage
like what happened with lettuce oh we
got to recall all the lettuce so
suddenly the price spikes up that should
be discounted when we look at
year-over-year averages and things you
you you can't include that the same
thing applies everywhere else okay when
there's a spike for some reason let's
make sure we understand that in general
though Goods prices have gone up
year-over-year not gone down but the
indicators are telling us they have gone
down it's wild I mean why why I don't if
you experience that please let me know
in the Des in the comments below I want
to hear you home prices are up in all
major US cities except one the Austin
housing market has Whiplash and that's
kind of what I'm saying here because the
prices went wild on the way up so
certainly you can have that Whiplash
effect okay I just want to make that
clear if you are in a circumstance where
you need some assistance that's why I
linked up with money pickle because
money pickle offers free cfp and
fiduciaries so that you can get advice
directly from them okay and it's like I
said it's totally free you go to the
link in the description right at the top
there and that will bring you to their
page and when you go you are actually
able to you know uh pick on the calendar
exactly what day you want you get it
right away it takes a literally just a
couple minutes and you'll be scheduled
with one of them they'll help you out
Link in the description so what am I
saying here today is that inflation is
already a problem but in 2024 the
expectation is that that's the beginning
that's a spark that's when things get
real hot there are multiple events
taking place in March of 2024 and that I
believe will be a bit vial moment and
something big we we can expect there's
no question the understanding here is
that the prices of things you pay today
will seem like a discount in this near
future and so we have to do everything
we can to preserve our wealth we need to
cut our expenses as best we can but also
understand how we can increase our Top
Line as best we can okay that's you know
we we only have so much so many hours in
the day we only have so much effort we
can apply but we have to do our best Do
not sit back and relax now is not the
time for that if you appreciate this
information hit that thumbs up button
when you do that you not only support
the channel but you notify the algorithm
like hey check this guy out so I do
appreciate you very much and of course
I'll see you back here tomorrow take
care